NCT Number: NCT05055908
Title: Efficacy and Biomarker Development for Lung Cancer Treated With Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
Official Title: Efficacy and Biomarker Development for Lung Cancer Treated With Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors With or Without Chemotherapy
Lead Sponsor: Hunan Province Tumor Hospital
Overall Status: RECRUITING
Start Date: 2021-10-01
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phases: PHASE3
Enrollment: 12000
Conditions: Lung Cancer

Brief Summary:
The purpose of the study is to find some biomarkers to predict the the adverse events of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors monotherapy or plus platinum based chemotherapy in lung cancer.

Detailed Description:
The purpose of the study is to find some biomarkers to predict the the adverse events of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors monotherapy or plus platinum based chemotherapy in lung cancer.

Step 1: All the lung cancer patients treated with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors monotherapy or plus platinum based chemotherapy were enrolled in this study.

Step 2: All the adverse events were evaluated by principal investigator. Step 3: All the blood and FFPE samples were collected for further anaysis. Step 4: Correlation between adverse events and gene profile was analysis. Step 4: Predict model was construted with AI.

Interventions:
- DRUG: Pemetrexed plus Pembrolizumab. Atezolizumab(1200mg) ivgtt, every 21 days, or pembrolizumab, 200mg ivgtt, every 21 days etc. Pemetrexed, 500mg/m2, ivgtt, every 21 days
- DRUG: Pembrolizumab. Atezolizumab(1200mg) ivgtt, every 21 days, or pembrolizumab, 200mg ivgtt, every 21 days etc.
- DRUG: Pemetrexed. Pemetrexed, 500mg/m2, ivgtt, every 21 days etc.

Eligibility Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Understand the requirements and contents of the clinical trial, and provide a signed and dated informed consent form.
2. Age ≥ 18 years.
3. Histologically or cytologically confirmed lung cancer.
4. Treated with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors with or without chemotherapy.

6\. Predicted survival ≥ 12 weeks. 7. Adequate bone marrow hematopoiesis and organ function 8. Presence of measurable lesions according to RECIST 1.1.

Exclusion Criteria:

Any conditions can not match for the Inclusion Criteria, includign do not have the data to perform Adverse Events evalutation.
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: 
Sex: ALL

Primary Outcome Measures:
- Correlation between Adverse events (AEs) and gene profile [Time Frame: Time from first subject dose to study completion, or up to 36 month] Correlation between Adverse events (AEs) and gene profile