NCT Number: NCT07003321
Title: A Trial of HRS-4508 in Subjects With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Official Title: Study on Efficacy and Safety of HRS-4508 in Subjects With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Lead Sponsor: Jiangsu HengRui Medicine Co., Ltd.
Overall Status: RECRUITING
Start Date: 2025-09-12
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phases: PHASE2
Enrollment: 120
Conditions: Solid Tumor

Brief Summary:
The study is being conducted to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and ORR of HRS-4508 in subjects with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer; Evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics of HRS-4508 and other efficacy endpoints for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.

Detailed Description:


Interventions:
- DRUG: HRS-4508 tablet. HRS-4508 tablet

Eligibility Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Age: 18 to 80 years old; Both men and women are welcome;
2. Locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer that has failed standard treatment or cannot tolerate standard treatment regimens.
3. ECOG ratings of 0 or 1.
4. Expected survival period ≥ 12 weeks.
5. At least one measurable lesion outside the central nervous system that meets the RECIST v1.1 standard definition.
6. Willing to participate and comply with the requirements of the research protocol, and willing to cooperate with follow-up visits.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Accompanied by untreated or active central nervous system (CNS) tumor metastasis. Subjects with a history of meningeal metastasis or current meningeal metastasis
2. There have been significant severe infections and major surgeries in the past 4 weeks
3. Existence of previous or concurrent malignant tumors
4. Difficult to treat nausea, vomiting, or other gastrointestinal diseases that affect the use of oral medication
5. Having undergone major surgeries other than diagnosis or biopsy within 28 days prior to the first administration; Experiencing traumatic minor surgery within 7 days prior to the first administration of medication
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: 80 Years
Sex: ALL

Primary Outcome Measures:
- The incidence and severity of adverse events (AE)/serious adverse events (SAE) (rated based on CTCAE v5.0) [Time Frame: 2 years] 
- Objective response rate (ORR) [Time Frame: 1 year] 